Analysis.md, before:


## Analysis

### Real Analysis

#### Proofs books

These aren't actually analysis books, but in the math curriculum that's often where they get used, since intro to real analysis is often the place where math students start to write (and really have to understand) proofs.

- Solow, *How to Read and Do Proofs: An Introduction to Mathematical Thought Processes*
- Velleman, *How to Prove It* (c/o)

#### Books to hold your hand

These books ease you into real analysis. They are designed to address a difficulty in the evolving US math curriculum, namely that because rigorous calculus textbooks (like Spivak and Apostol) are no longer commonly used in lower-level courses, students arrive in real analysis courses without knowing how to read and write proofs or understanding the theoretical foundation of calculus. These books help you with understanding how to do proofs, and they feed you the information in a way that's easier to digest. They don't cover all the material you need, and thus they aren't sufficient on their own to master the subject, but they can make the other books (which I call "standard" below) more manageable.

- Alcock, *How to Think About Analysis*

  This book begins with a discussion of how to read a math book. This might seem like a trivial thing to discuss, but it is a real problem for many people because math books are presented in a way that requires a lot of engagement on the part of the reader. Many students are not prepared when they encounter a book that is full of proofs and not much else. Alcock covers topics like how to relate theorems to definitions, and even how to study. The remainder of the book introduces major topics in analysis: sequences, series, continuity, differentiability, integrability, the real numbers. This book is written in such an elementary manner that it has a bit of a "for dummies" feel to it (though it's never condescening or childish), but if you can swallow your pride, there's a lot of good information here.

- Schramm, *Introduction to Real Analysis* (c)

  Schramm begins with a section on how to write proofs. What's really notable about the rest of the book is that he discusses how a number of major theorems of real analysis are essentially equivalent, and he shows you how to establish this equivalence. He wraps up by constructing the real number system via Dedekind cuts, which is a sensible transition to a book like Rudin that begins with Dedekind cuts.

- Ross, *Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus*

  Ross eases you into real analysis by removing the hardest material from the course (like measure) and putting extra emphasis on the fundamental topics. The book uses a decent number of illustrations when discussing basic topology.

- Abbot, *Understanding Analysis*

  Abbot's book is more a traditional real analysis book that the others in this section. It doesn't include chapters teaching you how to do mathemetics. The reason that I don't classify it with the "standard" textbooks is that it stops short of measure theory and the Lebesgue integral. For the material that he does cover, though, his explanations are good.

#### Historical approach

- Bressoud, *A Radical Approach to Real Analysis*
- Bressoud, *A Radical Approach to Lebesgue's Theory of Integration*

  I discuss both of these books by Bressoud together. Bressoud's concept is to teach analysis by tracing the history of the mathematical concepts, and the telling the story of the problems and controversies that played out over the course of the 19th Century that gave shape to modern analysis. He states that his main purpose is to teach you the math, though, not to teach you the history of mathematics.

  Bressoud summarizes *A Radical Approach to Real Analysis* thus: "The book begins with Fourier's introduction of trigonometric series and the problems they created for the mathematicians of the early nineteenth century. It follows Cauchy's attempts to establish a firm foundation for calculus, and considers his failures as well as his successes. It culminates with Dirichlet's proof of the validity of the Fourier series expansion and explores some of the counterintuitive results Riemann and Weierstrass were led to as a result of Dirichlet's proof."

  The second book is summarized thus: "The story begins with Riemann's definition of the integral, a definition created so that he could understand how broadly one could define a function and yet have it be integrable. The reader then follows the efforts of many mathematicians who wrestled with the difficulties inherent in the Riemann integral, leading to the work in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries of Jordan, Borel, and Lebesgue, who finally broke with Riemann's definition. Ushering in a new way of understanding integration, they opened the door to fresh and productive approaches to many of the previously intractable problems of analysis."

#### Standard books

- Rudin, *Principles of Mathematical Analysis* (u/i)

  AKA "Baby Rudin". The definitive book on real analysis. For some, it's the yardstick by which all other real analysis textbooks are measured, and found wanting. (For others, it's a work of elitist arrogance designed to make you feel inferior to the author.) Rudin expects you to keep up with him, and makes no apologies if you don't. The book is carefully constructed, though, so that at each step you have the definitions and theorems needed to proceed. This approach requires a lot of work from you as reader, but it does pay off. His exercises are demanding, but they force you to engage the material on another level and really understand it.

  If you don't have experience reading serious math books, one of the "hand-holding" books mentioned above is strongly suggested. Those authors no doubt had this book in mind as one of the texts that they intended to prepare you for.

  Most students will use some other textbook along with Rudin. Pretty much any of the other books mentioned here makes a suitable counterpoint to Rudin's style and fills in many of the details that he glosses over.

  In struggling with Rudin, I found various supplements and partial solutions manuals online. Of these, most were not very helpful; often, I had actually worked out the same proof that the they showed, but I didn't understand how it served to prove the premise and the solution came with no explanation. (That's still some help; though: if I have some reassurance that I've seen the statement that's necessary for the proof, then I know I'm on the right track.)

  The one resource that I did find most helpful is George Bergman's "Supplements", which has commentary on Rudin's text as well as the exercises [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_exs.pdf]. Bergman also wrote up his own errata listing things he had asked Rudin to change: [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_notes.pdf].

  UW-Madison hosts a solution manual by Roger Cooke, [http://minds.wisconsin.edu/handle/1793/67009]; this wasn't always thorough enough, but it was of some help.

- Apostol, *Mathematical Analysis*

  Another classic text (1974), with more extensive explanations than Rudin.
  
  This page has some solutions for exercises: http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~b89089/solution.html

- Johnsonbaugh and Pfaffenberger, *Foundations of Mathematical Analysis* (c)
- Kolmogorov and Fomin, *Introductory Real Analysis* (c)
  
  Reportedly, the problem with this one is that Richard Silverman, the translator, introduced many mathematical errors that make the book difficult to read and not much use without guidance. The same complaint has been made about Silverman's other Kolmogorov translations. That's a shame, because Kolmogorov was one of the great mathematicians of the 20th Century (arguably of all time) as well as a great math educator, and English-speakers would greatly benefit from accurate translations of his works.

- Pugh, *Real Mathematical Analysis*

  Notable for its many exercises. It contains many illustrations, but I find most of them to be poorly chosen, as if the author recognizes that illustrations are good to have but doesn't grasp how to use them to illustrate concepts.

- Taylor, *General Theory of Functions and Integration* (c)

  Another classic text (1965). It is notably clear in its explanations. This one doesn't seem to be very popular, but personally I like it.

- Tao, *Analysis* (I and II)

  My impression is that this focuses on intuition and understanding, and the proofs are largely exercises. It's published by Hundustan Book Agency and sold in the USA via AMS. It can be ordered from India via these links:

  - I: http://www.abebooks.com/servlet/BookDetailsPL?bi=18707026799
  - II: http://www.abebooks.com/servlet/BookDetailsPL?bi=18707026800

- Stromberg, *An Introduction to Classical Real Analysis*

  Well-liked for its topic selection and exercises.

### More analysis

These are appropriate for a second course in analysis.

- Royden (3e preferred)

  Royden is another classic real analyis text. One thing to be aware of is that a fourth edition was published with Patrick Fitzpatrick as co-author, but it hasn't been well-received: many felt that the third edition was in no need of revision, and the fourth introduced new errors. Since it was popular, many copies of the 3rd edition (of 1988) are still available on the used market.

- Folland, *Real Analysis: Modern Techniques and Their Applications* (u)

  An excellent book with extensive coverage.

- Bass, *Real Analysis for Graduate Students*

  Designed as an overview of all the real analysis that a grad student should need to pass a prelim in real analysis.
  Free online: http://bass.math.uconn.edu/real.html

- Stein and Sharkarchi's *Princeton Lectures in Analysis* series
  - Stein and Shakarchi, *Fourier Analysis: An Introduction*
  - Stein and Shakarchi, *Complex Analysis*
  - Stein and Shakarchi, *Real Analysis: Measure Theory, Integration, and Hilbert Spaces*
  - Stein and Shakarchi, *Functional Analysis: Introduction to Further Topics in Analysis*

  These four books form a series at the level of advanced undergraduate or beginning graduate analysis.
  They are widely praised for their quality, but they are also a bit pricey for what you get (and used
  copies aren't much cheaper).

- Carothers, *Real Analysis*

- Lieb and Loss, *Analysis*

  Largely focuses on applications.

#### Fourier analysis

- Hubbard, *The World According to Wavelets*
- Tolstov, *Fourier Analysis*

#### Manifolds
- Munkres, *Analysis On Manifolds*
- Spivak, *Calculus On Manifolds*
- Loomis and Sternberg, *Advanced Calculus*
- Bishop & Goldberg, *Tensor Analysis on Manifolds*
- Lee, *Introduction to Smooth Manifolds*

### Complex Analysis
- Rudin, *Real and Complex Analysis*
- Ahlfors, *Complex Analysis: An Introduction to the Theory of Analytic Functions of One Complex Variable*
- Shilov, *Elementary Real and Complex Analysis*
- Flanigan, *Complex Variables: Harmonic and Analytic Functions*
- Conway, *Functions of One Complex Variable*
- Needham, *Visual Complex Analysis*
- Schwerdtfeger, *Geometry of Complex Numbers*

### Functional Analysis
- Akhiezer and Glazman, *Theory of Linear Operators in Hilbert Space*
- Griffel, *Applied Functional Analysis*
- Shilov, *Elementary Functional Analysis*
- Kolmogorov and Fomin, *Elements of the Theory of Functions and Functional Analysis*
- Rudin, *Functional Analysis*

Commit message:

Rearrange Stein and Shak; add Halmos FA; add K&F

Analysis.md, after:


## Analysis

### Real Analysis

#### Proofs books

These aren't actually analysis books, but in the math curriculum that's often where they get used, since intro to real analysis is often the place where math students start to write (and really have to understand) proofs.

- Solow, *How to Read and Do Proofs: An Introduction to Mathematical Thought Processes*
- Velleman, *How to Prove It* (c/o)

#### Books to hold your hand

These books ease you into real analysis. They are designed to address a difficulty in the evolving US math curriculum, namely that because rigorous calculus textbooks (like Spivak and Apostol) are no longer commonly used in lower-level courses, students arrive in real analysis courses without knowing how to read and write proofs or understanding the theoretical foundation of calculus. These books help you with understanding how to do proofs, and they feed you the information in a way that's easier to digest. They don't cover all the material you need, and thus they aren't sufficient on their own to master the subject, but they can make the other books (which I call "standard" below) more manageable.

- Alcock, *How to Think About Analysis*

  This book begins with a discussion of how to read a math book. This might seem like a trivial thing to discuss, but it is a real problem for many people because math books are presented in a way that requires a lot of engagement on the part of the reader. Many students are not prepared when they encounter a book that is full of proofs and not much else. Alcock covers topics like how to relate theorems to definitions, and even how to study. The remainder of the book introduces major topics in analysis: sequences, series, continuity, differentiability, integrability, the real numbers. This book is written in such an elementary manner that it has a bit of a "for dummies" feel to it (though it's never condescening or childish), but if you can swallow your pride, there's a lot of good information here.

- Schramm, *Introduction to Real Analysis* (c)

  Schramm begins with a section on how to write proofs. What's really notable about the rest of the book is that he discusses how a number of major theorems of real analysis are essentially equivalent, and he shows you how to establish this equivalence. He wraps up by constructing the real number system via Dedekind cuts, which is a sensible transition to a book like Rudin that begins with Dedekind cuts.

- Ross, *Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus*

  Ross eases you into real analysis by removing the hardest material from the course (like measure) and putting extra emphasis on the fundamental topics. The book uses a decent number of illustrations when discussing basic topology.

- Abbot, *Understanding Analysis*

  Abbot's book is more a traditional real analysis book that the others in this section. It doesn't include chapters teaching you how to do mathemetics. The reason that I don't classify it with the "standard" textbooks is that it stops short of measure theory and the Lebesgue integral. For the material that he does cover, though, his explanations are good.

#### Historical approach

- Bressoud, *A Radical Approach to Real Analysis*
- Bressoud, *A Radical Approach to Lebesgue's Theory of Integration*

  I discuss both of these books by Bressoud together. Bressoud's concept is to teach analysis by tracing the history of the mathematical concepts, and the telling the story of the problems and controversies that played out over the course of the 19th Century that gave shape to modern analysis. He states that his main purpose is to teach you the math, though, not to teach you the history of mathematics.

  Bressoud summarizes *A Radical Approach to Real Analysis* thus: "The book begins with Fourier's introduction of trigonometric series and the problems they created for the mathematicians of the early nineteenth century. It follows Cauchy's attempts to establish a firm foundation for calculus, and considers his failures as well as his successes. It culminates with Dirichlet's proof of the validity of the Fourier series expansion and explores some of the counterintuitive results Riemann and Weierstrass were led to as a result of Dirichlet's proof."

  The second book is summarized thus: "The story begins with Riemann's definition of the integral, a definition created so that he could understand how broadly one could define a function and yet have it be integrable. The reader then follows the efforts of many mathematicians who wrestled with the difficulties inherent in the Riemann integral, leading to the work in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries of Jordan, Borel, and Lebesgue, who finally broke with Riemann's definition. Ushering in a new way of understanding integration, they opened the door to fresh and productive approaches to many of the previously intractable problems of analysis."

#### Standard books

- Rudin, *Principles of Mathematical Analysis* (u/i)

  AKA "Baby Rudin". The definitive book on real analysis. For some, it's the yardstick by which all other real analysis textbooks are measured, and found wanting. (For others, it's a work of elitist arrogance designed to make you feel inferior to the author.) Rudin expects you to keep up with him, and makes no apologies if you don't. The book is carefully constructed, though, so that at each step you have the definitions and theorems needed to proceed. This approach requires a lot of work from you as reader, but it does pay off. His exercises are demanding, but they force you to engage the material on another level and really understand it.

  If you don't have experience reading serious math books, one of the "hand-holding" books mentioned above is strongly suggested. Those authors no doubt had this book in mind as one of the texts that they intended to prepare you for.

  Most students will use some other textbook along with Rudin. Pretty much any of the other books mentioned here makes a suitable counterpoint to Rudin's style and fills in many of the details that he glosses over.

  In struggling with Rudin, I found various supplements and partial solutions manuals online. Of these, most were not very helpful; often, I had actually worked out the same proof that the they showed, but I didn't understand how it served to prove the premise and the solution came with no explanation. (That's still some help; though: if I have some reassurance that I've seen the statement that's necessary for the proof, then I know I'm on the right track.)

  The one resource that I did find most helpful is George Bergman's "Supplements", which has commentary on Rudin's text as well as the exercises [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_exs.pdf]. Bergman also wrote up his own errata listing things he had asked Rudin to change: [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_notes.pdf].

  UW-Madison hosts a solution manual by Roger Cooke, [http://minds.wisconsin.edu/handle/1793/67009]; this wasn't always thorough enough, but it was of some help.

- Apostol, *Mathematical Analysis*

  Another classic text (1974), with more extensive explanations than Rudin.
  
  This page has some solutions for exercises: http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~b89089/solution.html

- Johnsonbaugh and Pfaffenberger, *Foundations of Mathematical Analysis* (c)
- Kolmogorov and Fomin, *Introductory Real Analysis* (c)
  
  Reportedly, the problem with this one is that Richard Silverman, the translator, introduced many mathematical errors that make the book difficult to read and not much use without guidance. The same complaint has been made about Silverman's other Kolmogorov translations. That's a shame, because Kolmogorov was one of the great mathematicians of the 20th Century (arguably of all time) as well as a great math educator, and English-speakers would greatly benefit from accurate translations of his works.

- Pugh, *Real Mathematical Analysis*

  Notable for its many exercises. It contains many illustrations, but I find most of them to be poorly chosen, as if the author recognizes that illustrations are good to have but doesn't grasp how to use them to illustrate concepts.

- Taylor, *General Theory of Functions and Integration* (c)

  Another classic text (1965). It is notably clear in its explanations. This one doesn't seem to be very popular, but personally I like it.

- Tao, *Analysis* (I and II)

  My impression is that this focuses on intuition and understanding, and the proofs are largely exercises. It's published by Hundustan Book Agency and sold in the USA via AMS. It can be ordered from India via these links:

  - I: http://www.abebooks.com/servlet/BookDetailsPL?bi=18707026799
  - II: http://www.abebooks.com/servlet/BookDetailsPL?bi=18707026800

- Stromberg, *An Introduction to Classical Real Analysis*

  Well-liked for its topic selection and exercises.

### More analysis

These are appropriate for a second course in analysis.

- Kolmogorov and Fomin, *Elements of the Theory of Functions and Functional Analysis* (c)

  Kolmogorov was one of the great mathematicians of the 20th Century. Translated from Russian. This seems to be
  the preferred translation. (It's the same book as Silverman's *Introductory Real Analysis*.)

- Royden (3e preferred)

  Royden is another classic real analyis text. One thing to be aware of is that a fourth edition was published with Patrick Fitzpatrick as co-author, but it hasn't been well-received: many felt that the third edition was in no need of revision, and the fourth introduced new errors. Since it was popular, many copies of the 3rd edition (of 1988) are still available on the used market.

- Folland, *Real Analysis: Modern Techniques and Their Applications* (u)

  An excellent book with extensive coverage.

- Bass, *Real Analysis for Graduate Students*

  Designed as an overview of all the real analysis that a grad student should need to pass a prelim in real analysis.
  Free online: http://bass.math.uconn.edu/real.html

- Stein and Shakarchi, *Real Analysis: Measure Theory, Integration, and Hilbert Spaces*

  One of four books form a series (*Princeton Lectures in Analysis*) at the level of advanced
  undergraduate or beginning graduate analysis.
  They are widely praised for their quality, but they are also a bit pricey for what you get (and used
  copies aren't much cheaper).

- Carothers, *Real Analysis*

- Lieb and Loss, *Analysis*

  Largely focuses on applications.

#### Fourier analysis

- Stein and Shakarchi, *Fourier Analysis: An Introduction*
- Hubbard, *The World According to Wavelets*
- Tolstov, *Fourier Analysis*

#### Manifolds
- Munkres, *Analysis On Manifolds*
- Spivak, *Calculus On Manifolds*
- Loomis and Sternberg, *Advanced Calculus*
- Bishop & Goldberg, *Tensor Analysis on Manifolds*
- Lee, *Introduction to Smooth Manifolds*

### Complex Analysis
- Stein and Shakarchi, *Complex Analysis*
- Rudin, *Real and Complex Analysis*
- Ahlfors, *Complex Analysis: An Introduction to the Theory of Analytic Functions of One Complex Variable*
- Shilov, *Elementary Real and Complex Analysis*
- Flanigan, *Complex Variables: Harmonic and Analytic Functions*
- Conway, *Functions of One Complex Variable*
- Needham, *Visual Complex Analysis*
- Schwerdtfeger, *Geometry of Complex Numbers*

### Functional Analysis
- Stein and Shakarchi, *Functional Analysis: Introduction to Further Topics in Analysis*
- Akhiezer and Glazman, *Theory of Linear Operators in Hilbert Space* (c)
- Griffel, *Applied Functional Analysis* (c)
- Shilov, *Elementary Functional Analysis* (c)
- Rudin, *Functional Analysis*
- Halmos, *Introduction to Hilbert Space and the Theory of Spectral Multiplicity* (c)
- Halmos, *A Hilbert Space Problem Book*
