GeomTopo.md, before:


## Geometry

There are various English-language editions of Euclid available at archive.org; for now I haven't listed them here, but you can search for yourself.

- Euclid, tr. Heath. *The Elements*. Dover. ([Vol I / Books 1-2](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486600882), [Vol II / Books 3-9](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486600890), [Vol III / Books 10-13](https://smile.amazon.com/Euclid-Thirteen-Books-Elements-10-13/dp/0486600904))
- Euclid, tr. Heath. *The Elements. Green Lion Press. ([Single volume](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1888009195))
- Kiselev and Givental. *Kiselev's Geometry* (Vol I: [Sumizdat 1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0977985202); Vol II: [Sumizdat 1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0977985210))
- Hartshorne. *Geometry: Euclid and Beyond* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387986502))
- Moise. *Elementary Geometry From An Advanced Viewpoint* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0201508672), [2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0201047934))
- Greenberg. *Euclidean And Non-Euclidean Geometries* ([4e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0716799480))
- Coxeter. *Geometry Revisited* ([MAA 1967](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0883856190/))
- Coxeter. *Introduction to Geometry* ([Wiley 2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471504580/))
- Coxeter. *Regular Polytopes* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/Regular-Polytopes-H-S-Coxeter/dp/0486614808/))
- Coxeter. *Non-Euclidean Geometry* ([6e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0883855224/))
- Coxeter. *Projective Geometry* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387406239/))
- Altshiller-Court. *College Geometry: An Introduction to the Modern Geometry of the Triangle and the Circle* ([2e Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486458059/))
- Johnson. *Advanced Euclidean Geometry* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486462374/))

## General Topology

- Munkres. *Topology* ([2e intl](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/8120320468), [2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B004DX5K5K))

  The standard text.

- Mendelson. *Introduction to Topology* ([3e Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486663523))

  A brief introduction, available cheap.

- Gamelin and Greene. *Introduction to Topology* ([2e Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486406806))

  Another cheap alternative. One of Alan Hatcher's recommendations.

- Crossley. *Essential Topology* ([1e corr](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1852337826))

  An introductory text with a reputation for easy reading.

- Willard. *General Topology* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486434796))

  Another affordable introduction. Maybe too much information for a true first book.

- Jänich. *Topology* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387908927))

  Another of Alan Hatcher's recommendations, he calls it "a pleasure to read."

- Kelley. *General Topology* ([At Archive.org](https://archive.org/details/GeneralTopology), [Springer hardcover 1975](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0387901256), [Ishi Press 2008](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0923891552), [Van Nostrand 1955](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B00462BLBA))

  The classic introduction (1955).

- Simmons. *Introduction to Topology and Modern Analysis* ([Krieger 2003](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1575242389))

- Croom. *Principles of Topology* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486801543))

  A gentle introduction for beginners.

- Prasolov. *Intuitive Topology* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0821803565))

  An extremely gentle introduction for extreme beginners.

- Steen and Seebach. *Counterexamples in Topology* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/048668735X))

## Differential Geometry

- Milnor. *Topology from the Differentiable Viewpoint* ([PUP revised](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0691048339))
- Kreyszig. *Differential Geometry* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486667219))
- Spivak. *A Comprehensive Introduction to Differential Geometry* (in 6 volumes) ([Vol I, 3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0914098705); [Vol II, 3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0914098713); etc.)
- Guggenheimer. *Differential Geometry* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486634337))
- Bishop & Goldberg. *Tensor Analysis on Manifolds* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486640396))
- Lee. *Introduction to Topological Manifolds* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1441979395))
- Lee. *Introduction to Smooth Manifolds* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387954481))
- Lee. *Riemannian Manifolds: An Introduction to Curvature* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387983228))
- Do Carmo. *Riemannian Geometry* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0817634908))
- Do Carmo. *Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0132125897))
- Matsumoto. *An Introduction to Morse Theory* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0821810227))
- Kosinski. *Differential Manifolds* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486462447))
- Lovelock and Rund. *Tensors, Differential Forms, and Variational Principles* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486658406))
- Struik. *Lectures on Classical Differential Geometry* ([Dover](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0486656098))

## Algebraic Topology

See [the Algebra page](Algebra.md#algebraic-topology).

Ghrist. *Elementary Applied Topology* ([At CreateSpace](https://www.createspace.com/4978477), [At Amazon](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1502880857))

Commit message:

Hilbert and Cohn-Vossen, Birkhoff and Beatley

GeomTopo.md, after:


## Geometry

There are various English-language editions of Euclid available at archive.org; for now I haven't listed them here, but you can search for yourself.

- Euclid, tr. Heath. *The Elements*. Dover. ([Vol I / Books 1-2](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486600882), [Vol II / Books 3-9](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486600890), [Vol III / Books 10-13](https://smile.amazon.com/Euclid-Thirteen-Books-Elements-10-13/dp/0486600904))
- Euclid, tr. Heath. *The Elements. Green Lion Press. ([Single volume](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1888009195))
- Kiselev and Givental. *Kiselev's Geometry* (Vol I: [Sumizdat 1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0977985202); Vol II: [Sumizdat 1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0977985210))
- Hartshorne. *Geometry: Euclid and Beyond* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387986502))
- Moise. *Elementary Geometry From An Advanced Viewpoint* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0201508672), [2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0201047934))
- Greenberg. *Euclidean And Non-Euclidean Geometries* ([4e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0716799480))
- Coxeter. *Geometry Revisited* ([MAA 1967](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0883856190/))
- Coxeter. *Introduction to Geometry* ([Wiley 2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471504580/))
- Coxeter. *Regular Polytopes* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/Regular-Polytopes-H-S-Coxeter/dp/0486614808/))
- Coxeter. *Non-Euclidean Geometry* ([6e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0883855224/))
- Coxeter. *Projective Geometry* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387406239/))
- Altshiller-Court. *College Geometry: An Introduction to the Modern Geometry of the Triangle and the Circle* ([2e Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486458059/))
- Johnson. *Advanced Euclidean Geometry* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486462374/))
- Hilbert and Cohn-Vossen. *Geometry and the Imagination* ([AMS Chelsea](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/0821819984))
- Birkhoff and Beatley. *Basic Geometry* ([AMS Chelsea](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/0821821016))

## General Topology

- Munkres. *Topology* ([2e intl](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/8120320468), [2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B004DX5K5K))

  The standard text.

- Mendelson. *Introduction to Topology* ([3e Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486663523))

  A brief introduction, available cheap.

- Gamelin and Greene. *Introduction to Topology* ([2e Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486406806))

  Another cheap alternative. One of Alan Hatcher's recommendations.

- Crossley. *Essential Topology* ([1e corr](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1852337826))

  An introductory text with a reputation for easy reading.

- Willard. *General Topology* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486434796))

  Another affordable introduction. Maybe too much information for a true first book.

- Jänich. *Topology* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387908927))

  Another of Alan Hatcher's recommendations, he calls it "a pleasure to read."

- Kelley. *General Topology* ([At Archive.org](https://archive.org/details/GeneralTopology), [Springer hardcover 1975](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0387901256), [Ishi Press 2008](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0923891552), [Van Nostrand 1955](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B00462BLBA))

  The classic introduction (1955).

- Simmons. *Introduction to Topology and Modern Analysis* ([Krieger 2003](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1575242389))

- Croom. *Principles of Topology* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486801543))

  A gentle introduction for beginners.

- Prasolov. *Intuitive Topology* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0821803565))

  An extremely gentle introduction for extreme beginners.

- Steen and Seebach. *Counterexamples in Topology* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/048668735X))

## Differential Geometry

- Milnor. *Topology from the Differentiable Viewpoint* ([PUP revised](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0691048339))
- Kreyszig. *Differential Geometry* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486667219))
- Spivak. *A Comprehensive Introduction to Differential Geometry* (in 6 volumes) ([Vol I, 3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0914098705); [Vol II, 3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0914098713); etc.)
- Guggenheimer. *Differential Geometry* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486634337))
- Bishop & Goldberg. *Tensor Analysis on Manifolds* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486640396))
- Lee. *Introduction to Topological Manifolds* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1441979395))
- Lee. *Introduction to Smooth Manifolds* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387954481))
- Lee. *Riemannian Manifolds: An Introduction to Curvature* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387983228))
- Do Carmo. *Riemannian Geometry* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0817634908))
- Do Carmo. *Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0132125897))
- Matsumoto. *An Introduction to Morse Theory* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0821810227))
- Kosinski. *Differential Manifolds* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486462447))
- Lovelock and Rund. *Tensors, Differential Forms, and Variational Principles* ([Dover](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0486658406))
- Struik. *Lectures on Classical Differential Geometry* ([Dover](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0486656098))

## Algebraic Topology

See [the Algebra page](Algebra.md#algebraic-topology).

Ghrist. *Elementary Applied Topology* ([At CreateSpace](https://www.createspace.com/4978477), [At Amazon](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1502880857))
