ProbStats.md, before:


## Probability

#### General introductions

- Pitman, *Probability*

  Considered by many to be the best introduction to probability.

- Feller, *An Introduction to Probability Theory and its Applications* (volumes 1 & 2) (u)

#### Sheldon Ross
- Ross, *A First Course in Probability* (o)
- Ross, *A Second Course in Probability* (not very popular)
- Ross, *Introduction to Probability Models* (o)
- Ross, *Stochastic Processes* (u/i)

#### Karlin and Taylor
- Karlin and Taylor, *A First Course in Stochastic Processes* (u)
- Karlin and Taylor, *A Second Course in Stochastic Processes* (u)
- Karlin and Taylor, *An Introduction to Stochastic Modeling* (3e preferred)

#### Applied
- Mitzenmacher & Upfal, *Probability and Computing: Randomized Algorithms and Probabilistic Analysis*
- Ross, *Applied Probability Models with Optimization Applications* (c)

#### Biostats

- Wassertheil-Smoller. *Biostatistics and Epidemiology: A Primer for Health and Biomedical Professionals* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387402926))
- Glantz. *Primer of Biostatistics* ([6e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0071435093))

#### With measure theory

- Rosenthal, *A First Look at Rigorous Probability Theory* (c)

  This is, in particular, an introduction to measure theory. If you've already covered that adequately in real analysis then you might not need this book.

- Shiryaev, *Probability*
- Dudley, *Real Analysis and Probability*

  A well-regarded introduction to measure theory from a probability perspective.
  From the introduction:
  "The first half of the book gives an exposition of real analysis: basic set
  theory, general topology, measure theory, integration, an introduction to functional
  analysis in Banach and Hilbert spaces, convex sets and functions,
  and measure on topological spaces. The second half introduces probability
  based on measure theory, including laws of large numbers, ergodic theorems,
  the central limit theorem, conditional expectations, and martingale convergence.
  A chapter on stochastic processes introduces Brownian motion and the
  Brownian bridge."

- Schilling, *Measures, Integrals and Martingales*
- Williams, *Probability with Martingales*

  Very popular book at the lower end of measure-theoretic probability.

- Chung, *A Course in Probability Theory*
- Robert, *The Bayesian Choice: From Decision-Theoretic Foundations to Computational Implementation*
- Durrett, *Probability: Theory and Examples*
- Billingsley, *Probability and measure* (3e preferred)
- Kallenberg, *Foundations of Modern Probability*

## Statistics

- Freedman, Pisani and Purves, *Statistics* (u/o)

  Conceptual introduction to statistics with minimal math. Widely viewed as the best introduction to how to think about statistics.

- Diez, Barr, Çetinkaya-Rundel. *OpenIntro Statistics* (f)

  Get it free online here: https://www.openintro.org/stat/textbook.php?stat_book=os

  There are also a couple of other editions that de-emphasize math in order to teach students who have less background. (You can find them as well via the link above.)

- OpenStax, *Introductory Statistics* (f)

  - Free PDF: https://d3bxy9euw4e147.cloudfront.net/oscms-prodcms/media/documents/IntroductoryStatistics-OP.pdf
  - Buy on Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/Introductory-Statistics-OpenStax/dp/1938168208

- DeGroot and Schervish, *Probability and Statistics* (u/o)

  A popular introduction to mathematical statistics.

- Cassela and Berger, *Statistical Inference* (i)

  A standard grad-level introduction to mathematical/theoretical statistics.

- Schervish, *Theory of Statistics*

  More advanced and complete book on theoretical statistics.

- Bickel and Doksum, *Mathematical Statistics: Basic Ideas and Selected Topics* (volumes I and II)

  Standard grad-level text on mathematical statistics.

- Gelman et al, *Bayesian Data Analysis*

  Good first book on Bayesian analysis.

- Gelman and Hill, *Data Analysis Using Regression and Multilevel/Hierarchical Models*

  Good first book on multilevel/hierarchical models

- Fleiss, *The Design and Analysis of Clinical Experiments* (x)

  Standard book on clinical study design.

- Mandel, *The Statistical Analysis of Experimental Data* (c)

## Machine Learning

AKA statistical learning, data mining, predictive modeling.

### The free books

* James, Witten, Hastie and Tibshirani, 2013. *An Introduction to Statistical Learning: with Applications in R*

  AKA ISL or ISLR. Probably the most popular introduction to maching learning.
  http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/

* Hastie, Tibshirani and Friedman, 2009. *The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction*

  AKA ESL. The standard textbook for serious machine learning courses.
  http://statweb.stanford.edu/~tibs/ElemStatLearn/

* Goodfellow, Bengio and Courville, forthcoming/online. *Deep Learning*

  Due for publication in 2016 (or 2017?). This book isn't even out in paper form yet (MIT Press will publish it soon), but you can read it for free online here: http://www.deeplearningbook.org/

* Barber, 2012. *Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning*

  AKA BRML. A popular machine learning textbook from a Bayesian viewpoint.
  http://web4.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/D.Barber/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Brml.HomePage

* MacKay, 2003. *Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms*
  
  An older, but respected, introduction to ML from an information theory viewpoint.
  http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/itila/p0.html

* Boyd and Vandenberghe, *Convex Optimization*

  While this book is not exactly about machine learning, many (most?) ML techniques rely on the optimization techniques covered here. The book's web page also links to a free online course.
  
  https://web.stanford.edu/~boyd/cvxbook/

### Other big books

* Kuhn and Johnson, 2013. *Applied Predictive Modeling*

  This is a guide to machine learning at the level of detail necessary to implement techniques in R. Much attention is paid to how to make each method perform well. The body of each chapter is a description of the techniques involved, then at the end of the chapter is a "Computing" section which describes how to do what you just learned in R. The author's approach is to tell you just as much as you need to know to use the techniques, then point you to primary literature where you can read the details.
  
  http://appliedpredictivemodeling.com/

* Reed and Marks, 1999. *Neural Smithing: Supervised Learning in Feedforward Artificial Neural Networks* (c)

  This one is old, not particularly in-depth and only covers a limited subset of NN techniques, but it remains one of the better introductions to the topic of neural networks. It's also relatively short and affordable.

* Murphy, 2012. *Machine Learning: a Probabilistic Perspective*

  https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~murphyk/MLbook/

* Izenman, 2008. *Modern Multivariate Statistical Techniques: Regression, Classification, and Manifold Learning*

  This book is statistics-oriented, but it largely covers ML techniques.

* Bishop, 2006. *Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning*

  AKA PRML. Bayesian viewpoint. This book used to be very influential but it's getting a bit dated, and I get the impression that it's generally regarded as not the best-written ML book around.
  http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/cmbishop/PRML/index.htm

* Bishop, 1996. *Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition*

  Old but still relevant (because there aren't a lot of in-depth books about neural networks).

* Abu-Mostafa, Magdon-Ismail, Lin, 2012. *Learning From Data*

  Goes with an online course from Caltech: https://work.caltech.edu/telecourse.html

* Mohri, Rostamizadeh, Talwalkar, 2012. *Foundations of Machine Learning*

* Koller, Friedman, 2009. *Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles and Techniques*

  This is the reigning book on PGMs, but it demands more mathematical background (e.g. abstract algebra) than a lot of the other books listed here.

## Natural language processing

* Jurafsky and Martin, 2008. *Speech and Language Processing*

  The 2nd edition. A 3rd edition is in progress, and the draft can be seen here: https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/

* Manning and Schütze, 1999. *Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing*

  Older, but still the other big book in this field.

## Information retrieval

* Manning, Raghavan, Schütze, 2008. *Introduction to Information Retrieval*

  Free on the web: http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/

* Büttcher, Clarke, Cormack, 2010. *Information Retrieval: Implementing and Evaluating Search Engines*

Commit message:

Rearrange prob, add Trivedi; links

ProbStats.md, after:


## Probability

#### General introductions

- Pitman, *Probability*

  Considered by many to be the best introduction to probability.

- Ross, *A First Course in Probability* ([6e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0130338516))

  Lots of great problems.

- Feller, *An Introduction to Probability Theory and its Applications* (Vol I: [3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471257087), [3e intl](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/8126518057); Vol II: [2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B000OOHXDO), [2e intl](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/8126518065))

#### Further

- Ross, *Introduction to Probability Models* ([9e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0125980620))

#### Stochastic processes (without measure theory)

- Ross, *Stochastic Processes* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471120626), [2e intl](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/8126517573), [2e intl @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9780471120629/16832454196), [1e @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9780471099420/16098583380))
- Karlin and Taylor, *A First Course in Stochastic Processes* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0123985528)) (used price fluctuates a lot but can sometimes be in the $15-30 range)
- Karlin and Taylor, *A Second Course in Stochastic Processes* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0123986508)) (used price fluctuates a lot but can sometimes be in the $20-30 range)
- Karlin and Taylor, *An Introduction to Stochastic Modeling* (3e preferred: [3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0126848874))

#### Applied
- Trivedi. *Probability and Statistics with Reliability, Queueing, and Computer Science Applications* ([2e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471333417))
- Mitzenmacher & Upfal, *Probability and Computing: Randomized Algorithms and Probabilistic Analysis*
- Ross, *Applied Probability Models with Optimization Applications* (c)

#### With measure theory

- Ross, *A Second Course in Probability* (seems not very popular)

- Rosenthal, *A First Look at Rigorous Probability Theory* (c)

  This is, in particular, an introduction to measure theory. If you've already covered that adequately in real analysis then you might not need this book.

- Shiryaev, *Probability*
- Dudley, *Real Analysis and Probability*

  A well-regarded introduction to measure theory from a probability perspective.
  From the introduction:
  "The first half of the book gives an exposition of real analysis: basic set
  theory, general topology, measure theory, integration, an introduction to functional
  analysis in Banach and Hilbert spaces, convex sets and functions,
  and measure on topological spaces. The second half introduces probability
  based on measure theory, including laws of large numbers, ergodic theorems,
  the central limit theorem, conditional expectations, and martingale convergence.
  A chapter on stochastic processes introduces Brownian motion and the
  Brownian bridge."

- Schilling, *Measures, Integrals and Martingales*
- Williams, *Probability with Martingales*

  Very popular book at the lower end of measure-theoretic probability.

- Chung, *A Course in Probability Theory*
- Robert, *The Bayesian Choice: From Decision-Theoretic Foundations to Computational Implementation*
- Durrett, *Probability: Theory and Examples*
- Billingsley, *Probability and measure* (3e preferred)
- Kallenberg, *Foundations of Modern Probability*

## Statistics

- Freedman, Pisani and Purves, *Statistics* (u/o)

  Conceptual introduction to statistics with minimal math. Widely viewed as the best introduction to how to think about statistics.

- Diez, Barr, Çetinkaya-Rundel. *OpenIntro Statistics* (f)

  Get it free online here: https://www.openintro.org/stat/textbook.php?stat_book=os

  There are also a couple of other editions that de-emphasize math in order to teach students who have less background. (You can find them as well via the link above.)

- OpenStax, *Introductory Statistics* (f)

  - Free PDF: https://d3bxy9euw4e147.cloudfront.net/oscms-prodcms/media/documents/IntroductoryStatistics-OP.pdf
  - Buy on Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/Introductory-Statistics-OpenStax/dp/1938168208

- DeGroot and Schervish, *Probability and Statistics* (u/o)

  A popular introduction to mathematical statistics.

- Cassela and Berger, *Statistical Inference* (i)

  A standard grad-level introduction to mathematical/theoretical statistics.

- Schervish, *Theory of Statistics*

  More advanced and complete book on theoretical statistics.

- Bickel and Doksum, *Mathematical Statistics: Basic Ideas and Selected Topics* (volumes I and II)

  Standard grad-level text on mathematical statistics.

- Gelman et al, *Bayesian Data Analysis*

  Good first book on Bayesian analysis.

- Gelman and Hill, *Data Analysis Using Regression and Multilevel/Hierarchical Models*

  Good first book on multilevel/hierarchical models

- Fleiss, *The Design and Analysis of Clinical Experiments* (x)

  Standard book on clinical study design.

- Mandel, *The Statistical Analysis of Experimental Data* (c)

#### Biostats

- Wassertheil-Smoller. *Biostatistics and Epidemiology: A Primer for Health and Biomedical Professionals* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0387402926))
- Glantz. *Primer of Biostatistics* ([6e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0071435093))

## Machine Learning

AKA statistical learning, data mining, predictive modeling.

### The free books

* James, Witten, Hastie and Tibshirani, 2013. *An Introduction to Statistical Learning: with Applications in R*

  AKA ISL or ISLR. Probably the most popular introduction to maching learning.
  http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/

* Hastie, Tibshirani and Friedman, 2009. *The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction*

  AKA ESL. The standard textbook for serious machine learning courses.
  http://statweb.stanford.edu/~tibs/ElemStatLearn/

* Goodfellow, Bengio and Courville, forthcoming/online. *Deep Learning*

  Due for publication in 2016 (or 2017?). This book isn't even out in paper form yet (MIT Press will publish it soon), but you can read it for free online here: http://www.deeplearningbook.org/

* Barber, 2012. *Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning*

  AKA BRML. A popular machine learning textbook from a Bayesian viewpoint.
  http://web4.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/D.Barber/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Brml.HomePage

* MacKay, 2003. *Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms*
  
  An older, but respected, introduction to ML from an information theory viewpoint.
  http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/itila/p0.html

* Boyd and Vandenberghe, *Convex Optimization*

  While this book is not exactly about machine learning, many (most?) ML techniques rely on the optimization techniques covered here. The book's web page also links to a free online course.
  
  https://web.stanford.edu/~boyd/cvxbook/

### Other big books

* Kuhn and Johnson, 2013. *Applied Predictive Modeling*

  This is a guide to machine learning at the level of detail necessary to implement techniques in R. Much attention is paid to how to make each method perform well. The body of each chapter is a description of the techniques involved, then at the end of the chapter is a "Computing" section which describes how to do what you just learned in R. The author's approach is to tell you just as much as you need to know to use the techniques, then point you to primary literature where you can read the details.
  
  http://appliedpredictivemodeling.com/

* Reed and Marks, 1999. *Neural Smithing: Supervised Learning in Feedforward Artificial Neural Networks* (c)

  This one is old, not particularly in-depth and only covers a limited subset of NN techniques, but it remains one of the better introductions to the topic of neural networks. It's also relatively short and affordable.

* Murphy, 2012. *Machine Learning: a Probabilistic Perspective*

  https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~murphyk/MLbook/

* Izenman, 2008. *Modern Multivariate Statistical Techniques: Regression, Classification, and Manifold Learning*

  This book is statistics-oriented, but it largely covers ML techniques.

* Bishop, 2006. *Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning*

  AKA PRML. Bayesian viewpoint. This book used to be very influential but it's getting a bit dated, and I get the impression that it's generally regarded as not the best-written ML book around.
  http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/cmbishop/PRML/index.htm

* Bishop, 1996. *Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition*

  Old but still relevant (because there aren't a lot of in-depth books about neural networks).

* Abu-Mostafa, Magdon-Ismail, Lin, 2012. *Learning From Data*

  Goes with an online course from Caltech: https://work.caltech.edu/telecourse.html

* Mohri, Rostamizadeh, Talwalkar, 2012. *Foundations of Machine Learning*

* Koller, Friedman, 2009. *Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles and Techniques*

  This is the reigning book on PGMs, but it demands more mathematical background (e.g. abstract algebra) than a lot of the other books listed here.

## Natural language processing

* Jurafsky and Martin, 2008. *Speech and Language Processing*

  The 2nd edition. A 3rd edition is in progress, and the draft can be seen here: https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/

* Manning and Schütze, 1999. *Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing*

  Older, but still the other big book in this field.

## Information retrieval

* Manning, Raghavan, Schütze, 2008. *Introduction to Information Retrieval*

  Free on the web: http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/

* Büttcher, Clarke, Cormack, 2010. *Information Retrieval: Implementing and Evaluating Search Engines*
