README.md, before:

# MathStudy
Info on resources for studying math, stats, CS, etc.

## Calculus

Probably the best conventional calculus textbook is Leithold's *TC7* (*The Calculus, 7th edition*). It's a "1000-page monster" style book with exposition, proofs and exercises for the standard calculus sequence. I feel that it's very good up until the introduction of vectors; at that point, I'm not sure if the single chapter crash course in linear algebra is sufficient to grasp the subject. This seems to be a common problem with multivariate calculus texts, and I think the best solution is to get a proper introduction to linear algebra first.

MIT OCW has a pretty good series of lectures for calculus of a single variable that should go well with Leithold.

A more advanced choice is Apostol's *Calculus* Volumes I and II. MIT uses this as the text for their honors calculus course. It's very good, and goes deeper into the background of the math you're learning, but I think it's probably best in combination with a book like Leithold's. (I'm not sure if Volume II is really worthwhile, though.)

Leithold has been called a fairly demanding book. Personally, I think its clarity and wealth of examples would benefit any learner. However, for a more intuitive approach to the concepts of calculus, one book that might help is Thompson and Gardners's *Calculus Made Easy*. This one isn't really adequate as your sole textbook, but it does a good job of spoonfeeding you the intuitions of calculus.

Some people swear by Morris Kline's *Calculus: An Intuitive and Physical Approach*. It supposedly gives you a more intuitive understanding of calculus, as the title suggests. I haven't seen this book myself. The Dover edition is less than $20, though.

Other online lecture offerings include ones from Ohio State and Khan Academy. Both seemed a bit slow and basic for my taste, whereas MIT's was more my speed, but then again I already took calculus I in high school so I wasn't starting from scratch.

For more practice problems, many people rely on Schaum's Outlines and *Schaum's 3,000 Solved Problems in Calculus*. The University of Wisconsin-Madison also has free calculus texts that you can get online; they don't look at all adequate as stand-alone texts for self study, but they do have problems with some solutions included.

For multivariate calculus, there seems to be a general consensus that the texts that teach "all" of calculus don't do a great job with it. (Leithold, for example, stops giving so many proofs at that point in the curriculum and states that they belong in a book dedicated to the subject.) The following texts are dedicated to this part of the calculus curriculum in particular (arranged in descending order according to my impression of their usefulness):

- Hubbard and Hubbard, *Vector Calculus, Linear Algebra and Differential Forms: A Unified Approach*
- Schey, *Div, Grad, Curl and All That*
- Baxandall and Liebeck, *Vector Calculus*
- Friedman, *Advanced Calculus*
- Edwards, *Advanced Calculus of Several Variables*

*The Feynman Lectures* also discuss vector calculus in the context of electromagnetism, which is supposedly a great way to tie it in with your understanding of the physical, if you already have some background in physics.

## Differential Equations

### Combined
- Boyce and DiPrima, *Elementary Differential Equations*
- Piskunov, *Differential and Integral Calculus, Vol. I + II*

### ODEs
- Tenenbaum, *Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Hurewicz, *Lectures on Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Coddington, *An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Arnold, *Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Strang, *Differential Equations and Linear Algebra*

### PDEs

#### Basic

- Strauss, *Partial Differential Equations: An Introduction*
- Farlow, *Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers*
- Logan, *Applied Partial Differential Equations*
- Fritz, *Partial Differential Equations*
- Bleecker and Csordas, *Basic Partial Differential Equations*

#### Advanced (more prequisites)

- Gustafson, *Introduction to Partial Differential Equations and Hilbert Space Methods*
- Taylor, *Partial Differential Equations: Basic Theory*
- Evans, *Partial Differential Equations: Second Edition*
- Folland, *Introduction to Partial Differential Equations*

## Linear Algebra

- Strang, *Introduction to Linear Algebra* (with OCW lectures)
- Klein, *Coding the Matrix* (with Brown/Coursera course; great course but not much use as a stand-alone text)
- Axler, *Linear Algebra Done Right* (2e or 3e)
- Hoffman and Kunze, *Linear Algebra*

Others:
- Shilov, *Linear Algebra*
- Anton, *Elementary Linear Algebra*

Jim Hefferon has a free (GFDL) linear algebra text [http://joshua.smcvt.edu/linearalgebra/] which is available as a PDF file or as Latex source. It has exercises with worked answers.

Many people also favor the Schaum's Outline for linear algebra as well as Schaum's *3,000 Solved Problems in Linear Algebra*.

## Analysis

The big question that arises almost every time someone asks for an analysis text is, Rudin or not Rudin? I think the answer is, yes. Read his books, and read some others too in case you didn't get what Rudin was talking about.

### Real Analysis
- Johnsonbaugh and Pfaffenberger, *Foundations of Mathematical Analysis*
- Apostol, *Mathematical Analysis*
- Rudin, *Principles of Mathematical Analysis*
- Shilov and Gurevich, *Integral, Measure and Derivative: A Unified Approach*

In struggling with Rudin's *Principles of Mathematical Analysis* (aka "Baby "Rudin"), I found various supplements and partial solutions manuals online. Of these, most were not very helpful; often, I had actually worked out the same proof that the they showed, but I didn't understand how it served to prove the premise and the solution came with no explanation. (That's still some help; though: if I have some reassurance that I've seen the statement that's necessary for the proof, then I know I'm on the right track.)

The one resource that I did find most helpful is George Bergman's "Supplements", which has commentary on Rudin's text as well as the exercises [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_exs.pdf]. Bergman also wrote up his own errata listing things he wanted Rudin to change in the book: [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_notes.pdf].

UW-Madison hosts a solution manual by Roger Cooke, [http://minds.wisconsin.edu/handle/1793/67009]; this wasn't always thorough enough, but it was of some help.

### Manifolds
- Munkres, *Analysis On Manifolds*
- Spivak, *Calculus On Manifolds*
- Loomis and Sternberg, *Advanced Calculus*

### Complex Analysis
- Rudin, *Real and Complex Analysis*
- Shilov, *Elementary Real and Complex Analysis*
- Flannigan, *Complex Variables: Harmonic and Analytic Functions*

### Functional Analysis
- Rudin, *Functional Analysis*
- Kolmogorov and Fomin, *Elements of the Theory of Functions and Functional Analysis*
- Shilov, *Elementary Functional Analysis*

Commit message:

Add more linear algebra, complex analysis

README.md, after:

# MathStudy
Info on resources for studying math, stats, CS, etc.

## Calculus

Probably the best conventional calculus textbook is Leithold's *TC7* (*The Calculus, 7th edition*). It's a "1000-page monster" style book with exposition, proofs and exercises for the standard calculus sequence. I feel that it's very good up until the introduction of vectors; at that point, I'm not sure if the single chapter crash course in linear algebra is sufficient to grasp the subject. This seems to be a common problem with multivariate calculus texts, and I think the best solution is to get a proper introduction to linear algebra first.

MIT OCW has a pretty good series of lectures for calculus of a single variable that should go well with Leithold.

A more advanced choice is Apostol's *Calculus* Volumes I and II. MIT uses this as the text for their honors calculus course. It's very good, and goes deeper into the background of the math you're learning, but I think it's probably best in combination with a book like Leithold's. (I'm not sure if Volume II is really worthwhile, though.)

Leithold has been called a fairly demanding book. Personally, I think its clarity and wealth of examples would benefit any learner. However, for a more intuitive approach to the concepts of calculus, one book that might help is Thompson and Gardners's *Calculus Made Easy*. This one isn't really adequate as your sole textbook, but it does a good job of spoonfeeding you the intuitions of calculus.

Some people swear by Morris Kline's *Calculus: An Intuitive and Physical Approach*. It supposedly gives you a more intuitive understanding of calculus, as the title suggests. I haven't seen this book myself. The Dover edition is less than $20, though.

Other online lecture offerings include ones from Ohio State and Khan Academy. Both seemed a bit slow and basic for my taste, whereas MIT's was more my speed, but then again I already took calculus I in high school so I wasn't starting from scratch.

For more practice problems, many people rely on Schaum's Outlines and *Schaum's 3,000 Solved Problems in Calculus*. The University of Wisconsin-Madison also has free calculus texts that you can get online; they don't look at all adequate as stand-alone texts for self study, but they do have problems with some solutions included.

For multivariate calculus, there seems to be a general consensus that the texts that teach "all" of calculus don't do a great job with it. (Leithold, for example, stops giving so many proofs at that point in the curriculum and states that they belong in a book dedicated to the subject.) The following texts are dedicated to this part of the calculus curriculum in particular (arranged in descending order according to my impression of their usefulness):

- Hubbard and Hubbard, *Vector Calculus, Linear Algebra and Differential Forms: A Unified Approach*
- Schey, *Div, Grad, Curl and All That*
- Baxandall and Liebeck, *Vector Calculus*
- Friedman, *Advanced Calculus*
- Edwards, *Advanced Calculus of Several Variables*

*The Feynman Lectures* also discuss vector calculus in the context of electromagnetism, which is supposedly a great way to tie it in with your understanding of the physical, if you already have some background in physics.

## Differential Equations

### Combined
- Boyce and DiPrima, *Elementary Differential Equations*
- Piskunov, *Differential and Integral Calculus, Vol. I + II*

### ODEs
- Tenenbaum, *Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Hurewicz, *Lectures on Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Coddington, *An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Arnold, *Ordinary Differential Equations*
- Strang, *Differential Equations and Linear Algebra*

### PDEs

#### Basic

- Strauss, *Partial Differential Equations: An Introduction*
- Farlow, *Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers*
- Logan, *Applied Partial Differential Equations*
- Fritz, *Partial Differential Equations*
- Bleecker and Csordas, *Basic Partial Differential Equations*

#### Advanced (more prequisites)

- Gustafson, *Introduction to Partial Differential Equations and Hilbert Space Methods*
- Taylor, *Partial Differential Equations: Basic Theory*
- Evans, *Partial Differential Equations: Second Edition*
- Folland, *Introduction to Partial Differential Equations*

## Linear Algebra

- Strang, *Introduction to Linear Algebra* (with OCW lectures)
- Klein, *Coding the Matrix* (with Brown/Coursera course; great course but not much use as a stand-alone text)
- Axler, *Linear Algebra Done Right* (2e or 3e)
- Hoffman and Kunze, *Linear Algebra*
- Halmos, *Finite-Dimensional Vector Spaces*

Others:
- Shilov, *Linear Algebra*
- Anton, *Elementary Linear Algebra*
- Gentle, *Matrix Algebra: Theory, Computations, and Applications in Statistics*
- Bernstein, *Matrix Mathematics: Theory, Facts, and Formulas*
- Meyer, *Matrix Analysis and Applied Linear Algebra Book and Solutions Manual*
- Lang, *Linear Algebra*

Jim Hefferon has a free (GFDL) linear algebra text [http://joshua.smcvt.edu/linearalgebra/] which is available as a PDF file or as Latex source. It has exercises with worked answers.

Many people also favor the Schaum's Outline for linear algebra as well as Schaum's *3,000 Solved Problems in Linear Algebra*.

## Analysis

The big question that arises almost every time someone asks for an analysis text is, Rudin or not Rudin? I think the answer is, yes. Read his books, and read some others too in case you didn't get what Rudin was talking about.

### Real Analysis
- Johnsonbaugh and Pfaffenberger, *Foundations of Mathematical Analysis*
- Apostol, *Mathematical Analysis*
- Rudin, *Principles of Mathematical Analysis*
- Shilov and Gurevich, *Integral, Measure and Derivative: A Unified Approach*

In struggling with Rudin's *Principles of Mathematical Analysis* (aka "Baby "Rudin"), I found various supplements and partial solutions manuals online. Of these, most were not very helpful; often, I had actually worked out the same proof that the they showed, but I didn't understand how it served to prove the premise and the solution came with no explanation. (That's still some help; though: if I have some reassurance that I've seen the statement that's necessary for the proof, then I know I'm on the right track.)

The one resource that I did find most helpful is George Bergman's "Supplements", which has commentary on Rudin's text as well as the exercises [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_exs.pdf]. Bergman also wrote up his own errata listing things he wanted Rudin to change in the book: [https://math.berkeley.edu/~gbergman/ug.hndts/m104_Rudin_notes.pdf].

UW-Madison hosts a solution manual by Roger Cooke, [http://minds.wisconsin.edu/handle/1793/67009]; this wasn't always thorough enough, but it was of some help.

### Manifolds
- Munkres, *Analysis On Manifolds*
- Spivak, *Calculus On Manifolds*
- Loomis and Sternberg, *Advanced Calculus*

### Complex Analysis
- Rudin, *Real and Complex Analysis*
- Ahlfors, *Complex Analysis: An Introduction to the Theory of Analytic Functions of One Complex Variable*
- Shilov, *Elementary Real and Complex Analysis*
- Flannigan, *Complex Variables: Harmonic and Analytic Functions*
- Needham, *Visual Complex Analysis*
- Schwerdtfeger, *Geometry of Complex Numbers*

### Functional Analysis
- Rudin, *Functional Analysis*
- Kolmogorov and Fomin, *Elements of the Theory of Functions and Functional Analysis*
- Shilov, *Elementary Functional Analysis*
