Sciences.md, before:

# Sciences

This document is even more just a "jumble of references" than the rest of this repository.

## Physics

### Introductions

- [OpenStax. *College Physics*](https://openstax.org/details/college-physics) (two-semester introductory algebra-based physics course)
- [OpenStax. *University Physics*](https://openstax.org/details/university-physics) (it's not ready yet, but this will presumably be a calculus-based physics course, though I can't find anywhere that this is specified)
- Wolfson and Pasachoff. *Physics for Scientists and Engineers, 3e*
  (the text used with [Ramamurti Shankar's online courses at Yale](http://oyc.yale.edu/physics))
- Shankar. *Fundamentals of Physics: Mechanics, Relativity, and Thermodynamics* (based on Shankar's first online course, [Fundamentals of Physics I](http://oyc.yale.edu/physics/phys-200))
- Shankar. *Fundamentals of Physics II: Electromagnetism, Optics, and Quantum Mechanics* (based on Shankar's first online course, [Fundamentals of Physics II](http://oyc.yale.edu/physics/phys-201))
- Bueche and Hecht. *Schaum's Outline of College Physics*

### Misc

- Landau and Lifshitz. *Course of Theoretical Physics* series

  A sprawling series of texts that span much of physics. The first three volumes are:

  - Mechanics
  - The Classical Theory of Fields
  - Quantum Mechanics
  
  [Several books of Landau and Lifshitz, Second Edition, at The Internet Archive](https://archive.org/search.php?query=creator%3A%22L.D.+Landau+%26+E.M.+Lifshitz%22).

- Feynman. *The Feynman Lectures on Physics*
- Newton, translated by Cohen and Whitman. *The Principia : Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy*

### Mechanics

- Landau and Lifshitz (above)
- Balasubramanian and Dempsey. *Mechanics: An Extended Introduction* (no solutions available yet)
- Den Hartog. *Mechanics*
- Morin, *Introduction to Classical Mechanics: With Problems and Solutions*
- Kleppner and Kolenkow. *An Introduction to Mechanics*
- Synge and Griffith, 1949. [*Principles Of Mechanics* (at The Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/principlesofmech031468mbp)
- José and Saletan. *Classical Dynamics: A Contemporary Approach*
- Lanczos. *The Variational Principles of Mechanics*
- Goldstein, Goldstein and Poole. *Classical Mechanics*
- Arnol'd, translated by Vogtmann and Weinstein. *Mathematical Methods of Classical Mechanics*

#### Statistical mechanics

- Hill. *Statistical Mechanics: Principles and Selected Applications*
- Chandler. *Introduction to Modern Statistical Mechanics*
- McQuarrie. *Statistical Mechanics*
- Reichl. *A Modern Course in Statistical Physics*

#### Fluid mechanics

- Trefil. *Introduction to the Physics of Fluids and Solids*
- Granger. *Fluid Mechanics*
- [Lamb. *Hydrodynamics* (at the Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/hydrodynamics00lamb)
- Batchelor. *An Introduction to Fluid Dynamics*
- Milne-Thomson. *Theoretical Hydrodynamics*
- Spencer. *Continuum Mechanics*

### Thermodynamics

- Fermi. *Thermodynamics*
- Van Ness. *Understanding Thermodynamics*
- Hill. *An Introduction to Statistical Thermodynamics*
- Schwartz. *Principles of Electrodynamics*

### Electricity and magnetism

- Purcell and Morin. *Electricity and Magnetism*
- Griffiths. *Introduction to Electrodynamics*
- Zangwill. *Modern Electrodynamics*
- Schwartz. *Principles of Electrodynamics*

### Optics

- Jenkins and White, 1970 (4e). *Fundamentals of Optics*

  [Jenkins and White, 1957 (3e). *Fundamentals of Optics* (at The Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/FundamentalsOfOptics)

- Born, Wolf et al, 1999 (7e). [*Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light* (at the US Library of Congress)](http://catdir.loc.gov/catdir/samples/cam041/98049429.pdf)
- Born and Wolf, 1970 (4e). [*Principles of Optics* (at The Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/PrinciplesOfOptics)
- Hecht. *Optics* (u)
- Fowles. *Introduction to Modern Optics*

### Quantum

- Shankar. *Principles of Quantum Mechanics*
- Griffiths. *Introduction to Quantum Mechanics*
- Dirac. *The Principles of Quantum Mechanics*
- Bohm. *Quantum Theory*
- Schwartz. *Quantum Field Theory and the Standard Model* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1107034736))

#### Nuclear physics

- Blatt and Weisskopf. *Theoretical Nuclear Physics*
- Landau and Smorodinsky. *Lectures on Nuclear Theory*

### Relativity

#### Special Relativity

- French. *Special Relativity*
- Taylor and Wheeler. *Spacetime Physics*

#### General Relativity

- Liddle. *An Introduction to Modern Cosmology*
- Cheng. *Relativity, Gravitation and Cosmology: A Basic Introduction*
- Schutz. *A First Course in General Relativity*
- Wald. *General Relativity*
- Misner. Thorne, Wheeler. *Gravitation*
- Weinberg. *Cosmology*
- Weinberg. *Gravitation and Cosmology: Principles and Applications of the General Theory of Relativity*

### Mathematical physics

- Joos and Freeman. *Theoretical Physics*
- Menzel. *Mathematical Physics*

### Physics for mathematicians

There's an entire genre of physics books that are written for (and by) mathematicians. I list these in their own section. Some of these aren't actually explicitly for mathematicians but lean in that direction.

- Spivak, 2004. [*Elementary Mechanics from a Mathematician's Viewpoint*](http://math.uga.edu/~shifrin/Spivak_physics.pdf)
- Spivak. *Physics for Mathematicians, Mechanics I* (this is numbered "I" but there are no others)
- Garrity. *Electricity and Magnetism for Mathematicians*
- Folland. *Quantum Field Theory: A Tourist Guide for Mathematicians*
- Sternberg. *Curvature in Mathematics and Physics*
- Meyer. *Introduction to Mathematical Fluid Dynamics*

### Math for physics

There are math books written for physicists.

- Schey. *Div, Grad, Curl, and All That: An Informal Text on Vector Calculus*
- Shankar. *Basic Training in Mathematics: A Fitness Program for Science Students*
- Fleisch. *A Student's Guide to Vectors and Tensors*
- Hamill. *A Student's Guide to Lagrangians and Hamiltonians*
- Dennery and Krzywicki. *Mathematics for Physicists*
- Byron and Fuller. *Mathematics of Classical and Quantum Physics*
- Nakahara. *Geometry, Topology and Physics*
- Doran and Lasenby. *Geometric Algebra for Physicists*
- Aris. *Vectors, Tensors and the Basic Equations of Fluid Mechanics*
- Tinkham. *Group Theory and Quantum Mechanics*
- Farlow. *Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers*
- Van Kampen. *Stochastic Processes in Physics and Chemistry*
- Frankel. *The Geometry of Physics: An Introduction* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1107602602/))
- Boas. *Mathematical Methods in the Physical Sciences* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471198269), [3e intl @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9788126508105))
- Arfken et al. *Mathematical Methods for Physicists: A Comprehensive Guide* ([7e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0123846544), [7e intl @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9789381269558), [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0120598760), [4e @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9780120598151), [3e @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9780120598205))

## Chemistry

### General

- [OpenStax. *Chemistry*](https://openstax.org/details/chemistry)
- Moore, Stanitski, Jurs. *Chemistry: The Molecular Science*
- McQuarrie, Rock, Gallogly. *General Chemistry*
- Pauling. *General Chemistry* (old but still interesting)

### Inorganic

- Rodgers. *Descriptive Inorganic, Coordination, and Solid State Chemistry* [cheap 2nd edition](https://amazon.com/Descriptive-Inorganic-Coordination-Solid-Chemistry/dp/0125920601/)

### Analytical

- Harris. *Quantitative Chemical Analysis* (older editions cheap used)

### Organic

- Klein. *Organic Chemistry*
- Klein. *Organic Chemistry As a Second Language*
- DeWick. *Essentials of Organic Chemistry: For Students of Pharmacy, Medicinal Chemistry and Biological Chemistry* (cheap used, nice diagrams)
- Loudon. *Organic Chemistry* (cheap used)
- Wepplo. *A Handbook of Organic Chemistry Mechanisms*
- Anslyn, Dougherty. *Modern Physical Organic Chemistry*
- [Soderberg. *Organic Chemistry With a Biological Emphasis*](
  http://chemwiki.ucdavis.edu/Textbook_Maps/Organic_Chemistry_Textbook_Maps/Map%3A_Organic_Chemistry_With_a_Biological_Emphasis_(Soderberg))
- Clayden and Greeves. *Organic Chemistry*
- Carey. *Organic Chemistry* (u)
- MSU: http://www2.chemistry.msu.edu/faculty/reusch/VirtTxtJml/intro1.htm

### Physical

- McQuarrie and Simon. *Physical Chemistry: A Molecular Approach* (also, accompanying problems & solutions book)
- Harris and Bertolucci. *Symmetry and Spectroscopy: An Introduction to Vibrational and Electronic Spectroscopy*
- Sands. *Introduction to Crystallography*

### Quantum

- Pauling and Wilson. *Introduction to Quantum Mechanics with Applications to Chemistry*
- Schatz and Ratner. *Quantum Mechanics in Chemistry*
- McQuarrie. *Quantum Chemistry*

### Misc

- Harris and Bertolucci. *Symmetry and Spectroscopy: An Introduction to Vibrational and Electronic Spectroscopy*
- Bishop. *Group Theory and Chemistry*

### Links

- http://www.masterorganicchemistry.com/resource-guide/
- http://chemwiki.ucdavis.edu/Textbook_Maps

## Biology

### Intro

- [OpenStax. *Concepts of Biology*](https://openstax.org/details/concepts-biology)
  (for nonmajors)
- [OpenStax. *Biology*](https://openstax.org/details/biology)
  (for a typical two-semester biology course for science majors)

### Genetics

- Snustad and Simmons. *Principles of Genetics* [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Principles-Genetics-D-Peter-Snustad/dp/0470388250/)
- Griffiths, Wessler, Carroll and Doebley. *Introduction to Genetic Analysis*
- Snyder and Champness. *Molecular Genetics of Bacteria*
- Watson. *Molecular Biology of the Gene*

### Physiology

- [OpenStax. *Anatomy and Physiology*](https://openstax.org/details/anatomy-and-physiology)
  (for a two-semester course for life science and allied health majors)
- Hill et al. *Animal Physiology*
- Taiz and Zeiger. *Plant Physiology* [4e](https://smile.amazon.com/Plant-Physiology-4th-Lincoln-Taiz/dp/0878938567/) [3e](https://smile.amazon.com/Plant-Physiology-Lincoln-Taiz/dp/0878938230/)

### Cell

- Becker, Kleinsmith, Hardin, Bertoni. *Becker’s World of the Cell* [7e](https://smile.amazon.com/World-Cell-7th-Wayne-Becker/dp/0805393935/) [7e solutions](https://smile.amazon.com/Student-Solutions-Manual-World-Cell/dp/032152747X/)
- Alberts et al. *Essential Cell Biology*
- Alberts et al. *Molecular Biology of the Cell* [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Molecular-Biology-Cell-Bruce-Alberts/dp/0815341059/) [5e problem book](https://smile.amazon.com/Molecular-Biology-Cell-Fifth-Problems/dp/0815341105/)
- Lodish et al. *Molecular Cell Biology*
- Neidhardt, Ingraham, Schaechter. *Physiology of the Bacterial Cell: A Molecular Approach*

### Biochemistry

- Nelson and Cox. *Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry* [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Lehninger-Principles-Biochemistry-David-Nelson/dp/071677108X/) [4e](https://smile.amazon.com/Lehninger-Principles-Biochemistry-Fourth-Nelson/dp/0716743396/)
- Berg, Tymoczko, Gatto, Stryer. *Biochemistry*
- Ferrier. *Biochemistry (Lippincott Illustrated Reviews Series)* [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Biochemistry-Lippincott-Illustrated-Reviews-Ferrier/dp/1451175620/) [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Biochemistry-Lippincott-Illustrated-Reviews-Richard/dp/160831412X/)
- Lieberman and Ricer. *BRS Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, and Genetics* [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Biochemistry-Molecular-Biology-Genetics-Review/dp/1451175361/)
- Branden and Tooze. *Introduction to Protein Structure*

### Neuroscience

- Purves et al. *Neuroscience*
- Squire et al. *Fundamental Neuroscience*
- Kandel, Schwartz and Jessell. *Principles of Neural Science*
- Bear, Connors, Paradiso. *Neuroscience, Exploring the Brain*
- Rosenzweig, Leiman and Breedlove. *Biological Psychology*

## Engineering mathematics

This isn't science but I figured I'd just throw it in here.

- Kreyszig. *Advanced Engineering Mathematics* ([9e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471488852), [8e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471154962))
- Wylie. *Advanced Engineering Mathematics* ([6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Advanced-Engineering-Mathematics-Ray-Wylie/dp/0070722064))
- Stroud. *Engineering Mathematics* ([7e](https://smile.amazon.com/Engineering-Mathematics-K-Stroud/dp/0831134704), [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Engineering-Mathematics-K-Stroud/dp/0831133279))
- Stroud. *Advanced Engineering Mathematics* ([5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Advanced-Engineering-Mathematics-Kenneth-Stroud/dp/0831134496))

Commit message:

Move engineering math under physics

Sciences.md, after:

# Sciences

This document is even more just a "jumble of references" than the rest of this repository.

## Physics

### Introductions

- [OpenStax. *College Physics*](https://openstax.org/details/college-physics) (two-semester introductory algebra-based physics course)
- [OpenStax. *University Physics*](https://openstax.org/details/university-physics) (it's not ready yet, but this will presumably be a calculus-based physics course, though I can't find anywhere that this is specified)
- Wolfson and Pasachoff. *Physics for Scientists and Engineers, 3e*
  (the text used with [Ramamurti Shankar's online courses at Yale](http://oyc.yale.edu/physics))
- Shankar. *Fundamentals of Physics: Mechanics, Relativity, and Thermodynamics* (based on Shankar's first online course, [Fundamentals of Physics I](http://oyc.yale.edu/physics/phys-200))
- Shankar. *Fundamentals of Physics II: Electromagnetism, Optics, and Quantum Mechanics* (based on Shankar's first online course, [Fundamentals of Physics II](http://oyc.yale.edu/physics/phys-201))
- Bueche and Hecht. *Schaum's Outline of College Physics*

### Misc

- Landau and Lifshitz. *Course of Theoretical Physics* series

  A sprawling series of texts that span much of physics. The first three volumes are:

  - Mechanics
  - The Classical Theory of Fields
  - Quantum Mechanics
  
  [Several books of Landau and Lifshitz, Second Edition, at The Internet Archive](https://archive.org/search.php?query=creator%3A%22L.D.+Landau+%26+E.M.+Lifshitz%22).

- Feynman. *The Feynman Lectures on Physics*
- Newton, translated by Cohen and Whitman. *The Principia : Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy*

### Mechanics

- Landau and Lifshitz (above)
- Balasubramanian and Dempsey. *Mechanics: An Extended Introduction* (no solutions available yet)
- Den Hartog. *Mechanics*
- Morin, *Introduction to Classical Mechanics: With Problems and Solutions*
- Kleppner and Kolenkow. *An Introduction to Mechanics*
- Synge and Griffith, 1949. [*Principles Of Mechanics* (at The Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/principlesofmech031468mbp)
- José and Saletan. *Classical Dynamics: A Contemporary Approach*
- Lanczos. *The Variational Principles of Mechanics*
- Goldstein, Goldstein and Poole. *Classical Mechanics*
- Arnol'd, translated by Vogtmann and Weinstein. *Mathematical Methods of Classical Mechanics*

#### Statistical mechanics

- Hill. *Statistical Mechanics: Principles and Selected Applications*
- Chandler. *Introduction to Modern Statistical Mechanics*
- McQuarrie. *Statistical Mechanics*
- Reichl. *A Modern Course in Statistical Physics*

#### Fluid mechanics

- Trefil. *Introduction to the Physics of Fluids and Solids*
- Granger. *Fluid Mechanics*
- [Lamb. *Hydrodynamics* (at the Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/hydrodynamics00lamb)
- Batchelor. *An Introduction to Fluid Dynamics*
- Milne-Thomson. *Theoretical Hydrodynamics*
- Spencer. *Continuum Mechanics*

### Thermodynamics

- Fermi. *Thermodynamics*
- Van Ness. *Understanding Thermodynamics*
- Hill. *An Introduction to Statistical Thermodynamics*
- Schwartz. *Principles of Electrodynamics*

### Electricity and magnetism

- Purcell and Morin. *Electricity and Magnetism*
- Griffiths. *Introduction to Electrodynamics*
- Zangwill. *Modern Electrodynamics*
- Schwartz. *Principles of Electrodynamics*

### Optics

- Jenkins and White, 1970 (4e). *Fundamentals of Optics*

  [Jenkins and White, 1957 (3e). *Fundamentals of Optics* (at The Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/FundamentalsOfOptics)

- Born, Wolf et al, 1999 (7e). [*Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light* (at the US Library of Congress)](http://catdir.loc.gov/catdir/samples/cam041/98049429.pdf)
- Born and Wolf, 1970 (4e). [*Principles of Optics* (at The Internet Archive)](https://archive.org/details/PrinciplesOfOptics)
- Hecht. *Optics* (u)
- Fowles. *Introduction to Modern Optics*

### Quantum

- Shankar. *Principles of Quantum Mechanics*
- Griffiths. *Introduction to Quantum Mechanics*
- Dirac. *The Principles of Quantum Mechanics*
- Bohm. *Quantum Theory*
- Schwartz. *Quantum Field Theory and the Standard Model* ([1e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1107034736))

#### Nuclear physics

- Blatt and Weisskopf. *Theoretical Nuclear Physics*
- Landau and Smorodinsky. *Lectures on Nuclear Theory*

### Relativity

#### Special Relativity

- French. *Special Relativity*
- Taylor and Wheeler. *Spacetime Physics*

#### General Relativity

- Liddle. *An Introduction to Modern Cosmology*
- Cheng. *Relativity, Gravitation and Cosmology: A Basic Introduction*
- Schutz. *A First Course in General Relativity*
- Wald. *General Relativity*
- Misner. Thorne, Wheeler. *Gravitation*
- Weinberg. *Cosmology*
- Weinberg. *Gravitation and Cosmology: Principles and Applications of the General Theory of Relativity*

### Mathematical physics

- Joos and Freeman. *Theoretical Physics*
- Menzel. *Mathematical Physics*

### Physics for mathematicians

There's an entire genre of physics books that are written for (and by) mathematicians. I list these in their own section. Some of these aren't actually explicitly for mathematicians but lean in that direction.

- Spivak, 2004. [*Elementary Mechanics from a Mathematician's Viewpoint*](http://math.uga.edu/~shifrin/Spivak_physics.pdf)
- Spivak. *Physics for Mathematicians, Mechanics I* (this is numbered "I" but there are no others)
- Garrity. *Electricity and Magnetism for Mathematicians*
- Folland. *Quantum Field Theory: A Tourist Guide for Mathematicians*
- Sternberg. *Curvature in Mathematics and Physics*
- Meyer. *Introduction to Mathematical Fluid Dynamics*

### Math for physics

There are math books written for physicists.

- Schey. *Div, Grad, Curl, and All That: An Informal Text on Vector Calculus*
- Shankar. *Basic Training in Mathematics: A Fitness Program for Science Students*
- Fleisch. *A Student's Guide to Vectors and Tensors*
- Hamill. *A Student's Guide to Lagrangians and Hamiltonians*
- Dennery and Krzywicki. *Mathematics for Physicists*
- Byron and Fuller. *Mathematics of Classical and Quantum Physics*
- Nakahara. *Geometry, Topology and Physics*
- Doran and Lasenby. *Geometric Algebra for Physicists*
- Aris. *Vectors, Tensors and the Basic Equations of Fluid Mechanics*
- Tinkham. *Group Theory and Quantum Mechanics*
- Farlow. *Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers*
- Van Kampen. *Stochastic Processes in Physics and Chemistry*
- Frankel. *The Geometry of Physics: An Introduction* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/1107602602/))
- Boas. *Mathematical Methods in the Physical Sciences* ([3e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471198269), [3e intl @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9788126508105))
- Arfken et al. *Mathematical Methods for Physicists: A Comprehensive Guide* ([7e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0123846544), [7e intl @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9789381269558), [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0120598760), [4e @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9780120598151), [3e @AbeBooks](http://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9780120598205))

#### Engineering mathematics

I decided to group these books here because the topics are pretty similar to those seen in many "math for physics" textbooks.

- Kreyszig. *Advanced Engineering Mathematics* ([9e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471488852), [8e](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0471154962))
- Wylie. *Advanced Engineering Mathematics* ([6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Advanced-Engineering-Mathematics-Ray-Wylie/dp/0070722064))
- Stroud. *Engineering Mathematics* ([7e](https://smile.amazon.com/Engineering-Mathematics-K-Stroud/dp/0831134704), [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Engineering-Mathematics-K-Stroud/dp/0831133279))
- Stroud. *Advanced Engineering Mathematics* ([5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Advanced-Engineering-Mathematics-Kenneth-Stroud/dp/0831134496))

## Chemistry

### General

- [OpenStax. *Chemistry*](https://openstax.org/details/chemistry)
- Moore, Stanitski, Jurs. *Chemistry: The Molecular Science*
- McQuarrie, Rock, Gallogly. *General Chemistry*
- Pauling. *General Chemistry* (old but still interesting)

### Inorganic

- Rodgers. *Descriptive Inorganic, Coordination, and Solid State Chemistry* [cheap 2nd edition](https://amazon.com/Descriptive-Inorganic-Coordination-Solid-Chemistry/dp/0125920601/)

### Analytical

- Harris. *Quantitative Chemical Analysis* (older editions cheap used)

### Organic

- Klein. *Organic Chemistry*
- Klein. *Organic Chemistry As a Second Language*
- DeWick. *Essentials of Organic Chemistry: For Students of Pharmacy, Medicinal Chemistry and Biological Chemistry* (cheap used, nice diagrams)
- Loudon. *Organic Chemistry* (cheap used)
- Wepplo. *A Handbook of Organic Chemistry Mechanisms*
- Anslyn, Dougherty. *Modern Physical Organic Chemistry*
- [Soderberg. *Organic Chemistry With a Biological Emphasis*](
  http://chemwiki.ucdavis.edu/Textbook_Maps/Organic_Chemistry_Textbook_Maps/Map%3A_Organic_Chemistry_With_a_Biological_Emphasis_(Soderberg))
- Clayden and Greeves. *Organic Chemistry*
- Carey. *Organic Chemistry* (u)
- MSU: http://www2.chemistry.msu.edu/faculty/reusch/VirtTxtJml/intro1.htm

### Physical

- McQuarrie and Simon. *Physical Chemistry: A Molecular Approach* (also, accompanying problems & solutions book)
- Harris and Bertolucci. *Symmetry and Spectroscopy: An Introduction to Vibrational and Electronic Spectroscopy*
- Sands. *Introduction to Crystallography*

### Quantum

- Pauling and Wilson. *Introduction to Quantum Mechanics with Applications to Chemistry*
- Schatz and Ratner. *Quantum Mechanics in Chemistry*
- McQuarrie. *Quantum Chemistry*

### Misc

- Harris and Bertolucci. *Symmetry and Spectroscopy: An Introduction to Vibrational and Electronic Spectroscopy*
- Bishop. *Group Theory and Chemistry*

### Links

- http://www.masterorganicchemistry.com/resource-guide/
- http://chemwiki.ucdavis.edu/Textbook_Maps

## Biology

### Intro

- [OpenStax. *Concepts of Biology*](https://openstax.org/details/concepts-biology)
  (for nonmajors)
- [OpenStax. *Biology*](https://openstax.org/details/biology)
  (for a typical two-semester biology course for science majors)

### Genetics

- Snustad and Simmons. *Principles of Genetics* [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Principles-Genetics-D-Peter-Snustad/dp/0470388250/)
- Griffiths, Wessler, Carroll and Doebley. *Introduction to Genetic Analysis*
- Snyder and Champness. *Molecular Genetics of Bacteria*
- Watson. *Molecular Biology of the Gene*

### Physiology

- [OpenStax. *Anatomy and Physiology*](https://openstax.org/details/anatomy-and-physiology)
  (for a two-semester course for life science and allied health majors)
- Hill et al. *Animal Physiology*
- Taiz and Zeiger. *Plant Physiology* [4e](https://smile.amazon.com/Plant-Physiology-4th-Lincoln-Taiz/dp/0878938567/) [3e](https://smile.amazon.com/Plant-Physiology-Lincoln-Taiz/dp/0878938230/)

### Cell

- Becker, Kleinsmith, Hardin, Bertoni. *Becker’s World of the Cell* [7e](https://smile.amazon.com/World-Cell-7th-Wayne-Becker/dp/0805393935/) [7e solutions](https://smile.amazon.com/Student-Solutions-Manual-World-Cell/dp/032152747X/)
- Alberts et al. *Essential Cell Biology*
- Alberts et al. *Molecular Biology of the Cell* [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Molecular-Biology-Cell-Bruce-Alberts/dp/0815341059/) [5e problem book](https://smile.amazon.com/Molecular-Biology-Cell-Fifth-Problems/dp/0815341105/)
- Lodish et al. *Molecular Cell Biology*
- Neidhardt, Ingraham, Schaechter. *Physiology of the Bacterial Cell: A Molecular Approach*

### Biochemistry

- Nelson and Cox. *Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry* [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Lehninger-Principles-Biochemistry-David-Nelson/dp/071677108X/) [4e](https://smile.amazon.com/Lehninger-Principles-Biochemistry-Fourth-Nelson/dp/0716743396/)
- Berg, Tymoczko, Gatto, Stryer. *Biochemistry*
- Ferrier. *Biochemistry (Lippincott Illustrated Reviews Series)* [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Biochemistry-Lippincott-Illustrated-Reviews-Ferrier/dp/1451175620/) [5e](https://smile.amazon.com/Biochemistry-Lippincott-Illustrated-Reviews-Richard/dp/160831412X/)
- Lieberman and Ricer. *BRS Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, and Genetics* [6e](https://smile.amazon.com/Biochemistry-Molecular-Biology-Genetics-Review/dp/1451175361/)
- Branden and Tooze. *Introduction to Protein Structure*

### Neuroscience

- Purves et al. *Neuroscience*
- Squire et al. *Fundamental Neuroscience*
- Kandel, Schwartz and Jessell. *Principles of Neural Science*
- Bear, Connors, Paradiso. *Neuroscience, Exploring the Brain*
- Rosenzweig, Leiman and Breedlove. *Biological Psychology*
